Current Streak: 1
All Time Best Streak: 11
All Time Total: 31

Convolutional Neural Network
#Tags: #statistics #data #brilliantatbasics #onetailed #twotailed #hypothesistesting

# NEW FOCUS
I need to reengage the basics of my profession. To do this, I'm going to work my way through some text books foundational to being a data scientist. First is Statistics (9th Edition) by Robert S. Witte and John S. Witte. 

# Chapter 11.6 - 11.11: More about Hypothesis Testing 

## Four Possible Outcomes of a Hypothesis Test
1. Reject the null hypothesis when it is true (Type I error).
2. Reject the null hypothesis when it is false (Type II error).
3. Correctly reject a null hypothesis.
4. Correctly retain a null hypothesis.

## If H0 Really is True
- The probability of a Type I error is alpha.
- If we assume that H0 is really true, the we only need to concern ourselves with either retaining or rejecting H0. Importantly, if we consider these two outcomes in terms of a sampling distribution, then we can consider a one-tailed test as the *true* sampling distribution. 
- In this case, the probability of a correct decision is 1 - alpha. In most cases we set alpha to 0.05, so the probability of a correct decision is 0.95. If the consequences of a Type I error are severe, then we can set alpha to 0.01, which means that the probability of a correct decision is 0.99.

## If H0 Really is False Because of a Large Effect
- An **effect** is the difference between the population mean and the hypothesized value of the population mean.
- A **hypothesized sampling distribution** is a distribution centered at the hypothesized value of the population mean. It's used to generate decision rules. 
- A **true sampling distribution** is a distribution centered at the population mean. 
- **Beta** is the probability of a Type II error. 
- 

## If H0 Really is False Because of a Small Effect
- If the effect is small, then the hypothesized sampling distribution and the true sampling distribution are very similar.  
- If H0 is false because of a small effect, then the probability of a Type II error is large.
- If the probability of a Type II error is large, then the probability of a correct decision is small.

## Influence of Sample Size
- Remember that the euqation for the standard error of the mean is: 
    - SE = s / sqrt(n)
    - Therefore, as n increases, SE decreases.
- As n increases, the hypothesized sampling distribution and the true sampling distribution become more similar.
- Sample size can also be too large. A large sample size can lead to a statistically significant result that is not practically significant (identify really small changes in means that have no practical importance).
