Current Streak: 2
All Time Best Streak: 11
All Time Total: 34

Convolutional Neural Network
#Tags: #statistics #data #brilliantatbasics #ttest #twosample #independent

# NEW FOCUS
I need to reengage the basics of my profession. To do this, I'm going to work my way through some text books foundational to being a data scientist. First is Statistics (9th Edition) by Robert S. Witte and John S. Witte. 

# Chapter 14 Part 1: t Tests for Two Independent Samples

## Statistical Hypotheses
- *Two Independent Samples* are samples that are drawn from two different populations.
- The null hypothesis is that the population means are equal. The alternative hypothesis is that the population means are not equal. As an example, if we are examining the effect of EPO on endurance scores of cyclists, the null hypothesis is that the mean endurance score of cyclists who take EPO is equal to the mean endurance score of cyclists who do not take EPO. The alternative hypothesis is that the mean endurance score of cyclists who take EPO is not equal to the mean endurance score of cyclists who do not take EPO.

## Sampling Distribution of the Difference Between Two Sample Means
- The *sampling distribution of the difference between two sample means* represents the distribution that would be obtained if a value of t were calculated for each possible pair of sample means for all possible samples of a given size from two populations.
- The standard error of the difference between means is a rough measure of the average amount by which the sample mean is likely to differ from the population mean. The standard error of the difference between means is equal to the square root of the sum of the variances of the two populations divided by the sum of the sample sizes.

## t Test for Two Independent Samples
- *t Ratio* = (sample mean 1 - sample mean 2) - (population mean 1 - population mean 2) / (standard error of the difference between means)
- The t ratio is used to test the null hypothesis that the population means are equal.
- Once again we consult the table for the t distribution to find the critical value of t. We then compare the t ratio to the critical value of t to determine whether or not to reject the null hypothesis.

## p Values
- The p value is the probability of obtaining a value of t as extreme or more extreme than the observed value of t, assuming that the null hypothesis is true.
- Do not confuse the p value with the level of significance. The level of significance is the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true. The p value is the probability of obtaining a value of t as extreme or more extreme than the observed value of t, assuming that the null hypothesis is true.