Current Streak: 1
All Time Best Streak: 11
All Time Total: 32

# Red Hat OpenShift Administration 3: Troubleshoot Container and Pods
#Tags: #RedHat #RHCA #Kubernetes #DO180

# Container Troubleshooting Overview
- It's best to modify running containers only for the purpose of finding out why a container is not operating as expected. Then, redeploy the corrected container after the image is updated with the findings from troubleshooting.

# CLI Troubleshooting Tools
- kubectl describe: display details of a resource
- kubectl edit: Edit a resource config using system editor
- kubectl patch: Update a specific attribute or filed for a resource
- kubectl replace: Deploy a new instance of the resource
- kubectl cp: Copy files and directories to and from containers
- kubectl exec: Execute a command within a specified container
- kubectl explain: Display documentation for a specified resource
- kubectl port-forward: Configure a port forwarder for a specified container
- kubectl logs: Retrieve logs for a specified container
- oc status: Display status of containers in selected namespace
- oc rsync: Synchronize files and directories to and from containers
- oc rsh: Start a remote shell within a specified container

- What is the default editor in Linux or Windows? vi or Notepad

# Copy Files To and From Containers
- What file pust be present to use the <em>cp</em> command with kubectl or oc CLI? tar binary

- Administrators will commonly add config files or retrieve application logs to or from a container to inspect functionality.

# Remote Container Access
- Containers are ofted deployed with exposed ports so data can be sent to and from outside networks. This is done through the kubelet. However, not all containers required exposed ports but sometimes we want access them remotely anyways to inspect operation. This can be done by confituring port forwarding which creates a request throught the Kubernetes API. What's neat is that the container can be redepoloyed without port forwarding so it can run as intended.

- oc port-forward nginx-app-cc78k 8080:80

# Connect to Running Containers
- Use the <em>oc rsh POD_NAME</em> command to connect to a container via a shell.
- Ex: 
```
oc rsh tomcat-app-jw53r
```
- Importantly, the rsh command does not accept -n namespace options os pod namespace must be changed before oc rsh is executed.

# Execute Commands in a Container
- The <em>exec</em> command lets you run commands within an container form the CLI.
- Ex:
```
oc exec POD | TYPE/NAME [-c container_name] -- COMMAND [arg1 ... argN]
```
- If the -c contianer_name option isn't provided the command targets the first pod

# Container Events and Logs
- use the following to get a chronological list of events 
```
oc logs container_name
``` 

# Lab
- 1: Login
```
oc login -u <username> -p <password> \
https://example:port
```
- 2: Create new project
```
oc new-project <project_name>
```
- 3: Create a mysql server pod
```
oc run mysql-server \
  --image registry.ocp4.example.com:8443/rhel9/mysql-80:1228 \
  --env MYSQL_USER=<username> \
  --env MYSQL_PASSWORD=<password> \
  --env MYSQL_DATABASE=world
```
- 4: Retrieve pod status and see that there's an error
```
oc get pods
```
- 5: Inspect the pod to see where the error occurs
```
oc logs mysql-server
```
```
oc get events
```
- 6: Use skopeo to inspect the image manifest and determine the problem 
```
skopeo login registry.ocp4.example.com:8443

skopeo inspect \
  docker://registry.ocp4.example.com:8443/rhel9/mysql-80
```
- 7: Correct the error in the pod
```
oc edit pod/mysql-server
```
