Current Streak: 3
All Time Best Streak: 11
All Time Total: 29

Convolutional Neural Network
#Tags: #statistics #data #brilliantatbasics #zTest #HypothesisTesting

# NEW FOCUS
I need to reengage the basics of my profession. To do this, I'm going to work my way through some text books foundational to being a data scientist. First is Statistics (9th Edition) by Robert S. Witte and John S. Witte. 

# Chapter 10: Introduction to Hypothesis Testing: The z Test

## z Test for a Population Mean
- For a hypothesis test it is customary to base the test not on the sample mean but on the standardized sample mean, which is called the test statistic. The **sampling distribution of z** are the z values that would be obtained if the sample mean were repeatedly computed from samples of the same size taken from the same population.
- Reminder: to convert a raw score to a z score, subtract the mean and divide by the standard deviation.
- To convert a sample mean to a z score, subtract the population mean and divide by the standard error of the mean.
- A **z test for a population mean** is a test that evaluates how far the observed sample mean deviates from the population mean. The test statistic is the z score of the sample mean. The test is based on the sampling distribution of z.
- A **null hypothesis** is a statement about the value of a population parameter that is assumed to be true. The null hypothesis is denoted by H0. The null hypothesis is a statement of no effect, no difference, or no change. It is commonly phrased as, "There is no difference between the population mean and the hypothesized value."
- The **alternative hypothesis** is a statement about the value of a population parameter that is accepted if the sample data provide sufficient evidence that the null hypothesis is false. The alternative hypothesis is denoted by H1. The alternative hypothesis is a statement of effect, difference, or change. It is commonly phrased as, "There is a difference between the population mean and the hypothesized value."
- A **decision rule** is a statement that specifies the sample values that will lead to rejection of the null hypothesis. The decision rule is based on the level of significance, the type of test, and the nature of the alternative hypothesis. Common decision rules are, "Reject H0 if z is greater than 1.96 or less than -1.96."
- A **critical z score** is the value of z that separates the rejection region from the nonrejection region. 
- The **level of significance** is the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true. The level of significance is denoted by α. The level of significance is commonly set at 0.05.
- We reject the null hypothesis if the observed value of z qualifies as a rare outcome. A rare outcome is one that has a probability of occurrence less than or equal to the level of significance. 
