Current Streak: 4
All Time Best Streak: 11
All Time Total: 30

Convolutional Neural Network
#Tags: #statistics #data #brilliantatbasics #onetailed #twotailed #hypothesistesting

# NEW FOCUS
I need to reengage the basics of my profession. To do this, I'm going to work my way through some text books foundational to being a data scientist. First is Statistics (9th Edition) by Robert S. Witte and John S. Witte. 

# Chapter 11.1 - 11.5: More about Hypothesis Testing 

## Why Hypothesis Testing?
- Hypothesis testing is a way of making decisions about a population based on sample data.
- Before generalizing beyond the existing data, we need to measure the effect of chance. To do this we calculate the standard error. 
- However, there's still a chance that a decision we make regarding the null hypothesis is wrong. When we incorrectly reject the null hypothesis, we make a Type I error. When we incorrectly fail to reject the null hypothesis, we make a Type II error. We can easily remember these errors by remembering that a Type I error is a false Iositive and a Type II error is a false IIegative.

## Strong or Weak Decisions
- Decisions to retain the null hypothesis is seen as a weak decision because it implies that H0 could be true. For example if we fail to reject the null hypothesis that a coin is fair, we are not saying that the coin is fair. We are saying that we don't have enough evidence to say that the coin is not fair. Further, small changes to the value of H0 typically also result in the same common outcomes.
- As a result, many statisticians prefer to characterize retainin the null hypothesis as a failure to reject the null hypothesis.
- However, decisions to reject the null hypothesis is seen as a strong decision because it implies that H0 is probably false.

## One-Tailed and Two-Tailed Tests
- A **two-tailed test** is a hypothesis test where rejection regions are located in both tails of the sampling distribution. Alternative hypotheses for two-tailed tests are typically phrased as, "The population mean is not equal to the hypothesized value."
- A **one-tailed test** is a hypothesis test where the rejection region is located in only one tail of the sampling distribution. Alternative hypotheses for one-tailed tests are typically phrased as, "The population mean is greater than the hypothesized value." or "The population mean is less than the hypothesized value."
- One-tailed tests are extra sensitive to uncommon outcomes because the rejection region is located in only one tail of the sampling distribution. As a result, one-tailed tests are more likely to result in a Type I error than two-tailed tests.

## Choosing a Level of Significance
- The level of significance is the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true. The level of significance is denoted by α. The level of significance is commonly set at 0.05.



