Current Streak: 2
All Time Best Streak: 11
All Time Total: 32

Convolutional Neural Network
#Tags: #statistics #data #brilliantatbasics #confidenceintervals #estimation

# NEW FOCUS
I need to reengage the basics of my profession. To do this, I'm going to work my way through some text books foundational to being a data scientist. First is Statistics (9th Edition) by Robert S. Witte and John S. Witte. 

# Chapter 12: Estimation (Confidence Intervals)

## Point Estimation For Mu
- A **point estimate** is a single number that is used to estimate a population parameter like a mean.
- While these are straightforward, they suffer from a basic deficency: they tend to be innaccurate. This is because a single sample mean is unlikely to be exactly equal to the population mean.
- Since these point estimates tend to be innacurate, statisticians supplement point estimates with confidence intervals.

## Confidence Intervals
- A **confidence interval** is a range of values that is likely to contain the population parameter with a known degree of certainty.
- Confidence intervals are based on the idea that if we take many samples from a population, then a certain percentage of the sample means will fall within a certain distance of the population mean. Most commonly, we use 95% confidence intervals which means that 95% of the sample means will fall within 1.96 standard errors of the population mean.
- **False confidence intervals** are those that do not contain the population mean. These are the 5% of confidence intervals that do not contain the population mean (because 95% of confidence intervals do contain the population mean).
- To determine a confidence interval, we need to know the standard error of the mean. The standard error of the mean is the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of the mean. The standard error of the mean is equal to the standard deviation of the population divided by the square root of the sample size. We then multiply the standard error of the mean by 1.96 to get the margin of error. We then add and subtract the margin of error from the sample mean to get the confidence interval. For example, if the sample mean is 10, the standard deviation of the population is 2, and the sample size is 100, then the standard error of the mean is 0.2. The margin of error is 0.392. The confidence interval is 9.608 to 10.392.

## Interpretation of a Confidence Interval
- A confidence interval is a range of values that is likely to contain the population parameter with a known degree of certainty. We can be reasonably sure that a population mean will fall within a 95% confidence interval.

## Level of Confidence
- The level of confidence is the percentage of confidence intervals that will contain the population parameter. For example, a 95% confidence interval means that 95% of confidence intervals will contain the population parameter.
- If we wanted to increase the level of fonfidence, we could increase the z-score. For example, a 99% confidence interval means that 99% of confidence intervals will contain the population parameter. To get a 99% confidence interval, we would use a z-score of 2.576.

## Effect of Sample Size
- The larger the sample size, the smaller the standard error of the mean. This means that the confidence interval will be smaller. This makes sense because the larger the sample size, the more accurate the sample mean is likely to be.

## Hypothesis Tests or Confidence Intervals?
- Hypothesis tests and confidence intervals are two different ways of looking at the same data.
- Hypothesis tests indicate whether or not an effect is present. Confidence intervals indicate the size of the effect.
- A hypothesis test is a test of a null hypothesis. The null hypothesis is that the population mean is equal to a hypothesized value. The alternative hypothesis is that the population mean is not equal to the hypothesized value. If the null hypothesis is rejected, then the alternative hypothesis is accepted.
- A confidence interval is a range of values that is likely to contain the population parameter with a known degree of certainty. If the hypothesized value is within the confidence interval, then the null hypothesis is accepted. If the hypothesized value is not within the confidence interval, then the null hypothesis is rejected.

## Margin of Error
- That which is added and subtracted from the sample mean to get the confidence interval.