Current Streak: 1
All Time Best Streak: 11
All Time Total: 33

Convolutional Neural Network
#Tags: #statistics #data #brilliantatbasics #ttest #onesample

# NEW FOCUS
I need to reengage the basics of my profession. To do this, I'm going to work my way through some text books foundational to being a data scientist. First is Statistics (9th Edition) by Robert S. Witte and John S. Witte. 

# Chapter 13: t-Tests for One Sample

## Sampling Distribution of t
- The *sampling distribution of t* represents the distribution that would be obtrained if a value of t were calculated for each sample mean for all possible samples of a given size from a population.
- Discovered by William Sealy Gosset (1876-1937) who worked for the Guinness Brewery in Dublin, Ireland. He published under the pseudonym "Student" because Guinness did not want their competitors to know that they were using statistical methods to improve their product.
- The sampling distribution of t is a theoretical distribution that is used to test hypotheses about the mean of a population when the population standard deviation is unknown.

## Compared to the Standard Normal Distribution
- The sampling distribution of t is similar to the standard normal distribution in that it is symmetrical and bell-shaped.
- When the degrees of freedom is large (n > 30), the sampling distribution of t is almost identical to the standard normal distribution. This is because the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of t approaches 1 as the degrees of freedom increases.
- When the degrees of freedom is small (n < 30), the sampling distribution of t is more spread out than the standard normal distribution. This is because the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of t is greater than 1 when the degrees of freedom is small.

## Table for t Distributions
- The table for the t distribution is similar to the table for the standard normal distribution. The table for the t distribution is used to find the probability that a value of t will be less than or equal to a given value of t. These tables typically concentrate only on critical values of t that correspondd to common levels of significance (e.g. 0.05, 0.01, 0.001).

## Finding Critical Values of t
- The critical value of t is the value of t that is used to determine whether or not to reject the null hypothesis.
- To find the critical value of t, we need to know the degrees of freedom and the level of significance. First, we find the row in the table that corresponds to the degrees of freedom. Then, we find the column in the table that corresponds to the level of significance. The value of t at the intersection of the row and column is the critical value of t. For example, if the degrees of freedom is 10 and the level of significance is 0.05, then the critical value of t is 1.812.

## t Test
- *t Ratio* = (sample mean - population mean) / (sample standard deviation / sqrt(sample size))
- The t ratio is used to test hypotheses about the mean of a population when the population standard deviation is unknown.
- For example, given that a sample mean is 43, the hypothesized mean is 45, the estimated standard error is 0.89, and the degrees of freedom is 5. The t ratio is -2.25. The critical value of t is -3.365. Since the t ration is less negative than the critical value of t, we fail to reject the null hypothesis.

## Common Theme of the Hypothesis Test
- There are a number of test (z, t, F, U, T) for a variety of situations. However, they all have the same basic structure. If some observed characteristic, such as the mean for a random sample qualifies as an extreme value, then we reject the null hypothesis. Otherwise, we fail to reject the null hypothesis.

## Estimating the Standard Error
- If the population standard deviation is unknown, then we can estimate it using the sample standard deviation. This is called the *estimated standard error*.
- *Estimated Standard Error* = sample standard deviation / sqrt(sample size)