Current Streak: 3
All Time Best Streak: 11
All Time Total: 18

Convolutional Neural Network
#Tags: #CNN #Convolution #Pooling #Interview
[[one percent better]]
[[ai]]
[[ml]]


# Interview Question
What is a convolutional neural network (CNN), and how is it applied in image recognition tasks?

# Answer
CNNs are a type of deep learning algorithm well-suited for processing grid-like data, like images, due to their use of convolutional layers and pooling layers. These features help them identify hidden patterns within the data which is great for tasks like image recognition, speech generation and more. 

As an example, suppose we have a library of labeled images we want to build an algorithm that can correctly identify the image subject. It's important to note that images are composed of pixels. There are rows of pixels and columns of pixels. Each pixel also has depth in reference to the color channels that make it up (RGB).

First, a convolutional layer is applied. This layer slides a small window over the pixels row by row and column by column and color by color. As it slides it performs an operation on the values within the window (typically something like a dot product). 

Next, the image is passed through a pooling layer. The purpose of this layer is to reduce the dimensionality of the convolutional layer. The result is that features present in each region of the image are "summarized". This is typically done by moving another window across the convolutional layer and extracting selected values (max or average values is common).

Importantly, the operations of the windows can be customized for various purposes. Some windows can be modified to find lines; others distinct colors. The results is a deep learning network capable of recognizing these patterns and thus correctly identifying the subject in each image.
