Current Streak: 10
All Time Best Streak: 10

# Red Hat OpenShift Administration 1: Chapter 2
#Tags: #RedHat #RHCA #Kubernetes #DO180

# Goal
Access an OpenShift cluster using the command line then query its Kubernetes API resources to asess cluster health

# The Kubernetes and OpenShift Command-line Interfaces
- <em>kubectl</em> commands are native to Kubernetes and are wrapper over Kubernetes API.

- <em>oc</em> commands are specific to OpenShift and are a superset of the <em>kubectl</em> commands.

- <em>oc</em> CLI installation also includes the <em>kubectl</em> cli. However, <em>kubectl</em> can be installed independently but version matters (must be within one minor version difference of your cluster).

- <em>oc</em> CLI does everything <em>kubectl</em> does but also enables you to manage projects, deployment configs, routes and image streams.

- Before you can interact with you RHOCP cluster you must first login:

```
[user@host ~]$ oc login cluster-url
```

- Basic <em>oc</em> commands:
    - Create a new project: ```oc new-project myapp```
    - Print adress of control plane and other cluster services: ```oc cluster-info```
    - See cluster operators: ```oc get clusteroperator```
    - Retrieve information about resources in project: ```oc get pod```
    - Retrieve summary of most important components of a cluster: ```oc get all```
    - Retrieve additional information not found in the get command: ```oc describe {resource}```
    - Learn about fields of an API resource: ```oc explain {resource}```
    - Create a RHOCP resource in the current project: ```oc create -f pod.yaml```

- The following resource types can be created and configured using a YAML or JSON file or OpenShift management tools:
    - Pods
    - Services: connect clients to pods by defining an IP/port combination.
    - ReplicaSet: ensure a specified number of pod replicas are running at any given time.
    - Persistent Volume: define the storage area for pods to use
    - Persistent Volume Claims: Link a PV to a pod so containers can use the provisioned storage.
    - Secrets/ConfigMaps
    - Deployment: A representation of a set of containers included in a pod with the deployment strategy. 
    - BuildConfig: Build the container image from source code in a git repository.
    - DeploymentConfig: 

- Some developers consider OpenShift logs to be too low-level, thus making troubleshooting difficult. Fortunately, RHOCP provides a high-level logging and auditing facility called events. Kubernetes generates event objects in response to state changes in cluster objects, such as nodes, pods, and containers. Events signal significant actions, such as starting a container or destroying a pod.

- The RHOCP web console incorporates useful graphs to visualize cluster and resource analytics.

- The monitoring stack is based on the Prometheus project, and it is configured to monitor the core RHOCP cluster components, by default.

- You can collect resource definitions and service logs from your cluster by using the oc adm must-gather command.

- Quiz
    - Which supported API resource is a member of the oauth.openshift.io api-group?
        - tokenreviews
    - Which two fields are members of the pod.spec.securityContext object? (Choose two.)
        - runAsUser, sysctls
    - Which three commands display the conditions of the master01 node? (Choose three.)
        - ```oc get node/master01 -o json | jq '.status.conditions'```
        - ```oc get node/master01 -o yaml```
        - ```oc get node/master01 -o json```
    - Select the two valid condition types for a control plane node. (Choose two)
        - PIDPressure, Ready
    - Select three valid options for the oc adm top pods command. (Choose three.)
        - -A, --sum, --containers
    - Which command determines the assigned internal IP address on the master01 node?
        - ```oc get nodes master01 -o=jsonpath='{.status.addresses}{"\n"}'```
    - Which command displays only the conditions for the authentication cluster operator?
        - ```oc get clusteroperators.config.openshift.io authentication -o json | jq .status.conditions```
