Current Streak: 9
All Time Best Streak: 9

# Red Hat OpenShift Administration 1: Intro and Chapter 1
#Tags: #RedHat #RHCA #Kubernetes #DO180

# Introduction
- **Purpose of course** - This course prepares OpenShift Cluster Administrators to perform day-to-day management of Kubernetes workloads and collaborate with Developers, DevOps Engineers, System Administrators, and SREs to ensure the availability of application workloads.

## Objectives
- Managing OpenShift clusters from cli
- Deploying applications on OpenShift from images, templates, and kubernetes manifests
- Troubleshooting netowrk connectivity btw applications inside and outside an OpenShift Cluster
- Connecting Kubernetes workloads to storage
- Configuring Kubernetes workloads for high availability and reliability
- Managing updates to container images, settings, and Kubernetes manifests of an application

## Chapter 1
- Containers provide a way to package applications and their dependencies that can be executed on any system with a container runtime. They are created from container images which include all the dependencies needed to run an application.

- <em>"Runtime" refers to the environment or platform where containers can be executed. Specifically, in the world of containerization and cloud computing, a runtime is the software, tools, and libraries that are needed to run containers on a system.</em>

- Kubernetes is a platform. It simplifies deployment, management, and scaling of containerized applications. It creates a cluster that runs applications across multiple nodes. If a node fails, Kubernetes can restart an application in a different node. 

- <em>A node is a physical or virtual machine that is part of the Kubernetes cluster. Each node hosts a portion of the total workload running in the cluster. Nodes are the workers that run the containers (which are part of the workloads). In a Kubernetes cluster, there are usually multiple nodes, providing the infrastructure to run the containers. The Kubernetes control plane automatically manages the distribution of workloads across these nodes, based on resource requirements, availability, and other scheduling criteria.</em>


- A pod is one or multiple containers that run in the same cluster node.

- A job is a workload that runs a task in a pod until completion.

- <em>Workload refers to applications or services that are running on the cluster. It is a general term that can encompass various types of runnable entities managed by Kubernetes, such as Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, and others. A workload typically defines not just the containerized application itself, but also its requirements and characteristics, like the amount of required memory, the number of replicas, network settings, and storage needs.</em>

- **Kubernetes features**

    - Service discovery and load balancing - Kubernetes automatically configures netwowrking and provides a DNS service for pod so pods can communicates with services from other pods across nodes using only hostnames. 

    - Horizontal scaling - Pods can be created or deleted to adapt to the load. 

    - Self-healing - Pods can be monitored, restarted, and rescheduled failing or unavailable apps if health issues are discovered.

    - Automated rollout - Updates can be gradually rolled out or back.

    - Secrets and configuration management - Secrets and configuration settings can be managed without changing containers (Kubernetes does not encrypt secrets).

    - Operators - Packaged Kubernetes applications that manage workloads in a declarative manner.

- **Architectural concepts**

    - Kubernetes uses several servers (aka nodes) to sensure resilience and scalability. These nodes come in two types:

        - Control plane - Cluster coordination for scheduling and deployed workloads. Manage the state of the cluster in response to events and requests.

        - Compute plane - Run the user workloads.

- In Kubernetes, resources (like pods, services, deployments, etc.) are defined in text files, typically in YAML or JSON format. These files describe what the desired state of that resource should be. For example, a deployment file might specify the number of replicas of a pod, the container image to use, and other configuration details.

- Controllers continuously track the state of teh cluster to ensure it meets what's outlined in the declarative resource management file. 

## Introduction to Red Hat OpenShift

- Kubernetes is great but incomplete. OpenShift uses the extensibility of Kubernetes to build complete solutions. Added features of RH OpenShift include:

    - Integrated developer workflow - Integrates container registry, CI/CD pipelines, S2I, and a tool to build artifacts from source repositories. 

    - <em>Source to Image (S2I) removes a lot of the complexity around building container images by adding your source code to base builder images.</em>

    - Observability - Includes monitoring and logging services for the application and cluster.

    - Server management - OpenShift optimizes the underlying OS to run containers.

## Red Hat OpenShift Editions

- Managed editions - Offer quick access to a cluster on a cloud provider's infrastructure. More responsibilities of cluster management are delegated to Red Hat and the cloud providers because of integration with the providers hardware.

- Self-managed editions - You have greater control and flexibility but more responsibility. Can be deployed on premise or in the cloud. 

- Insights Advisor helps admins id and remediate cluster issues by analyzing data. 

- RH OpenShift Kubernetes Engine - Latest version of OpenShift with additional security and stability.

- RH Openshift Container Platform - Builds on Kubernetes Engine to include additional manageability, security, stability, and ease of development.

## Red Hat OpenShift Web Console

- GUI to perform many admin tasks for managing a cluster.

- You can access the web console using any modern web browser. To find the addresss for your cluster use the following commands in the oc cli:

```
[user@host ~]$ oc login -u user -p password https://api.ocp4.example.com:6443

[user@host ~]$ oc whoami --show-console
```

- Webconsole provides Administrator and Developer perspectives. Each perspective has different menu categories. 

## Guided Exercise

- oc login has three parts:
    - -u and the username
    - -p and the password
    - the address to the OpenShift cluster

- What are host binaries?
    - <em>These are simply the binaries that reside on a host machine. They are the actual executable files that the host uses to run software programs. For example, the binaries for system utilities, server software, or any installed application on the host would be considered host binaries.</em>

- What is kubelet?
    - <em>Each node in a Kubernetes cluster has a kubelet running on it. You can think of the kubelet as a little helper that lives on each node. Its job is to make sure that the containers that are supposed to be running on that node are actually running and healthy. The kubelet gets instructions from the Kubernetes control plane (which is like the brain of the whole Kubernetes system) about what containers should be running on its node. The kubelet then works to start those containers, keep them running, and restart them if they crash.</em>



## Quiz 

- What is the installed version for the OpenShift cluster? 
    - 4.12.0

- Which three severity types are available for the alerts in the cluster? (Choose three.)
    - Info, Warning, Critical

- Which three labels are on the thanos-querier route in the openshift-monitoring namespace? (Choose three.)
    - app.kubernetes.io/component=query-layer, app.kubernetes.io/instance=thanos-querier, app.kubernetes.io/version=0.28.1

- Which two objects are listed as the StorageClasses objects for the cluster? (Choose two.)
    - nfs-storage, lvms-vg1

- When All Projects is selected at the top, which two operators are installed in the cluster? (Choose two.)
    - MetalLB Operator, LVM Storage