# Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2)
#Tags: #CostAnalysis #AWS #EC2 #ComputeEnvironment

# What is EC2
Imagine there's a new video game you're dying to play but your computer at home isn't powerful enough to run it. You'd need a new GPU and tons of memory to run it and you just don't have the money to pay the upfront cost for all that new hardware. Luckily though, there's a company that has the computer you need and will let you remotely connect to it so you can play the game. Instead of paying the upfront cost for the computer parts and long term maintenance and security you pay some amount per hour you're connected. Even better, if your friends want to play you can rent time on other similar computers and all play at the same time.

EC2 is a service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that enables users to rent virtual computers for the purpose of running their applications, websites, games, etc. Users can choose from a variety of setups that suit your specific task. If you need only a little bit of memory and a relatively small CPU to run a private website you can configure your EC2 instance to have only those features. Similarly, if you need a ton of memory and GPUs for your machine learning application, you can rent those components to build your model. Users can create, launch, and terminate any number of instances they need; typically paying some amount of money for every second each instance is up.

# Types of instances
As of November 2023 there are eisixght instance types offered. Think of AWS EC2 instances like a buffet with eight special dishes, each perfect for different tech appetites:

- **General Purpose** - The all-rounder. It's like the buffet's pasta station, good for almost everyone and versatile enough for a variety of tastes. Great for different kinds of digital work, from basic apps to everyday tasks.
- **Compute Optimized** - The protein powerhouse. Think of it as the steak of the buffet, ideal for tasks that need a lot of digital muscle. Perfect for heavy-duty jobs like video editing, complex calculations, advanced web services, hardcore gaming, and smart AI tasks.
- **Memory Optimized** - The big memory salad. Just like a salad with lots of ingredients, these are great for jobs that need to juggle lots of information at once.
- **Accelerated Computing** - The high-tech sushi bar. These use special tools (like wasabi and ginger for sushi) to speed up specific tasks like graphics or data sorting.
- **Storage Optimized** - The giant pizza with all the toppings. Imagine needing to store and reach lots of different toppings (data) quickly and efficiently; that's what these are for.
- **HPC Optimized** - The high-performance grill. Think of it as the spot for cooking up complex, intense projects like big scientific experiments or advanced AI learning.

# EC2 features
- **Burstable performance instances** - These intances have a baseline performance but can "burst" above that baseline if needed. For instance, webservers and development environments don't need consistently high levels of CPU but benefit from having access to more compute when needed. T3 can adapt its energy (CPU performance) from chill mode (baseline) to superhero mode (bursting above baseline) as needed. T Unlimited instances, like marathon runners, can keep going at high energy for long tasks without extra charges, as long as they balance it out over a day.
- **Multiple storage options** - Choose the storage option that's right for your needs. Choose EBS storage for durable, block-level storage volume you can attach to a single EC2 instance. EBS is typically used for data that requires frequent and granular updates like a database. Instance storage can be added but is deleted once the instance is closed. S3 storage is highly durable and highly available object storage.
- **Cluster networking** - Some instances can be clustered together in low-latency networks that can transfer data between instances, S3 buckets and the internet. 

# Cost
- **On-demand pricing** - Pay for compute capacity by the hour (minimum 60 seconds) with no long term commitments. Prices range from $0.0042/min for a t4g.nano instance to $109.20/min for a u-12tb1.112xlarge (448 CPUs, 12TB memory).
- **Reserved instance** - You get a lower price in exchange for committing to an EC2 instance for 1 or 3 years. The discount can be substantial (75% in some cases). Can choose to pay all upfront, partial upfront, or no upfront.
- **Spot instance** - Pay up to 90% less for space compute capacity. AWS offers no SLA but some companies are offering services that predict when interuptions to service may occur. 
- **Dedicated instance** - Your instance runs on hardware dedicated to a single customer and won't share a physical server with insances from other AWS accounts. Users may prefer this for secutiy and compliance reasons or like the consistent performance you get from being the only one to use this hardware. However these instances are more expensive.
- **Data transfer** - You have to pay for the data be transfered in and out of the EC2 instance. 
    - **Data in from the internet** - $0.00
    - **Data out to the internet** - $0.09 per GB for first 10 TB/month. Scales lower as the number of TB/month increases.
    - **Data out to other regions** - $0.02 per GB
    - **Data within the same regions** - $0.01 per GB