Current Streak: 11
All Time Best Streak: 11

# Red Hat OpenShift Administration 1: Chapter 2
#Tags: #RedHat #RHCA #Kubernetes #DO180

## Goal

Run and troubleshoot containerized applications as unmanaged pods.

## Create Pods

There are various way to create containers in pods.

- <em>oc run</em> - The run cli command can be used to create and deploy an application in a pod from an image. Basic syntax for the run command is:

```
oc run RESOURCE/NAME --image IMAGE --command -- cmd arg1 ... argN
```

    - Options:
        -it - enables interactive pods
        --restart - set a restart option (Always, OnFailure, Never)
        --rm - automatically delete pods after they exit
        --env - set environment variables

## User and Group IDs

- OpenShift adds user ID (UID) and group ID (GID) to pods.
- Regular users cannot choose UIDs for their containers. Instead, UIDs adn GIDs are assigned from a range of options in the project. 
- GID of the user is always 0 (root).
- When a cluster admin creates a pod the USER instruction is processed.
- Executing a container as a privileged account is a security risk as the account has unrestricted access to the system.
- Red Hat recommends you run containers as rootless or an unprivileged user. 
- Red hat also recommends you run containers from different apps with unique user IDs. 

## Execute Commands in Running Containers

- Use the <em>exec</em> command to execute commands in a running container.

```
oc exec RESOURCE/NAME -- COMMAND [args...] [options]
```

- Commands re executed in the first container of a pod unless the <em>-c</em> or <em>--container</em> commands are specified. 

- Can also pass <em>-it</em> arg to exec to create an interactive session. 

## Container Logs

- Revrieve logs with <em>logs pod pod-name</em> commands. 

## Deleting Resources

- Delete pods and other resources using the <em>delete</em> command.

- Pods try to terminiate processes before being forced to terminate. However, you can set a time limit after which the pod will be forcibly deleted using the <em>--grace-period=x</em> command.

## The CRI-O Container Engine

- Container  engines are required to run containers. Worker and control plane nodes in OpenShift use the CRI-O container engine.

- Container engines have their own features and ways of doing things. CRI-O is known to be streamlined and perfectly fitting for Kubernetes.

- To manage containers using the CRI-O engine, use the <em>crictl</em> and the following subcommands:

    - <em>crictl pods</em> - List all pods on a node
    
    - <em>crictl image</em> - List all images on a node
    
    - <em>crictl exec</em> - Run a command in a running container.

- Cluster admins can create debug pods for a node. To enable access to host binaries like the <em>crictl</em> commands you have to change root to /host, (```chroot /host```). You can now manage containers on the node.

## Container Image Components

- Layers - Images are created from instructions and each instruction adds a layer to the image. Layers are stacked to create a read-only container image.

- Metadata - Instructions and documentation for an image.

## Container Image Instructions

- ENV - Define environment variables available in the container.

- ARG - Define build-time variables.

- USER - Define the active user. Good practice to define a user other than root. 

- ENTRYPOINT - Defines the executable to run when started. For example if you're running a python application set ENTRYPOINT to `python`.

- CMD - Defines the command to execute when the container is started.

- WORKDIR - Sets the working directory in the container.

- EXPOSE - Indicates the network port the application binds to within the container.

- VOLUME - Defines where to store data outside the container

## Base images

- Image that your resulting container image is build on. 

## Skopeo

- Skopeo is a tool used to inspect and manage remote images. You can also copy images from a remote repo and save it to a local disk.

## OC Image command

- <em>oc image</em> commands lets you inspect, configure, and retrieve info about images.



    

